---
title: Books to read in 2020
author: Daniel Sinnott
imageurl: https://i.imgur.com/0Xu12Se.jpg
id: 28
tags:
    - Personal
    - Books
date: Mon, 20th Apr 2020
created: 2020-04-20T03:51:33.869Z
---

---

![Sapiens](https://i.imgur.com/YGXXBuP.jpg#1.3 "Sapiens")

## Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari

100,000 years ago, at least six human species inhabited the earth. Today there is just one. Us. Homo
sapiens.

How did our species succeed in the battle for dominance? Why did our foraging ancestors come
together to create cities and kingdoms? How did we come to believe in gods, nations and human
rights; to trust money, books and laws; and to be enslaved by bureaucracy, timetables and
consumerism? And what will our world be like in the millennia to come?

In Sapiens, Dr Yuval Noah Harari spans the whole of human history, from the very first humans to
walk the earth to the radical – and sometimes devastating – breakthroughs of the Cognitive,
Agricultural and Scientific Revolutions. Drawing on insights from biology, anthropology,
paleontology and economics, he explores how the currents of history have shaped our human societies,
the animals and plants around us, and even our personalities. Have we become happier as history has
unfolded? Can we ever free our behaviour from the heritage of our ancestors? And what, if anything,
can we do to influence the course of the centuries to come?

Bold, wide-ranging and provocative, Sapiens challenges everything we thought we knew about being
human: our thoughts, our actions, our power ... and our future.

---

![Do the work](https://i.imgur.com/nRxgMPf.jpg#1.3 "Do the work")

## Do the work by Steven Pressfield

Our enemy is not lack of preparation; it's not the difficulty of the project, or the state of the
marketplace or the emptiness of our bank account.

The enemy is resistance.

The enemy is our chattering brain, which, if we give it so much as a nanosecond, will start
producing excuses, alibis, transparent self-justifications and a million reasons why he
can't/shouldn't/won't do what we know we need to do.

Start before you're ready.

---

![Alice's Adventures in Wonderland](https://i.imgur.com/sLb9uAz.jpg#1.3 "Alices Adventures in Wonderland")

## Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll

After a tumble down the rabbit hole, Alice finds herself far away from home in the absurd world of
Wonderland. As mind-bending as it is delightful, Lewis Carroll’s 1865 novel is pure magic for young
and old alike.

---

![The Myth of Sisyphus](https://i.imgur.com/926NlEN.jpg#1.3 "The Myth of Sisyphus")

## The Myth of Sisyphus by Albert Camus

One of the most influential works of this century, this is a crucial exposition of existentialist
thought.

Influenced by works such as Don Juan, and the novels of Kafka, these essays begin with a meditation
on suicide: the question of living or not living in an absurd universe devoid of order or meaning.

With lyric eloquence, Camus posits a way out of despair, reaffirming the value of personal
existence, and the possibility of life lived with dignity and authenticity.

---

![1984](https://i.imgur.com/zJQRde7.jpg#1.3 "1984")

## 1984 by George Orwell

The year 1984 has come and gone, but George Orwell's prophetic, nightmarish vision in 1949 of the
world we were becoming is timelier than ever.

1984 is still the great modern classic of "negative utopia"—a startlingly original and haunting
novel that creates an imaginary world that is completely convincing, from the first sentence to the
last four words.

No one can deny the novel's hold on the imaginations of whole generations, or the power of its
admonitions—a power that seems to grow, not lessen, with the passage of time.

---

![How to Win Friends and Influence People](https://i.imgur.com/7qaspu3.jpg#1.3 "How to Win Friends and Influence People")

## How to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie

You can go after the job you want...and get it! You can take the job you have...and improve it! You
can take any situation you're in...and make it work for you!

Since its release in 1936, How to Win Friends and Influence People has sold more than 15 million
copies. Dale Carnegie's first book is a timeless bestseller, packed with rock-solid advice that has
carried thousands of now famous people up the ladder of success in their business and personal
lives.

As relevant as ever before, Dale Carnegie's principles endure, and will help you achieve your
maximum potential in the complex and competitive modern age.

Learn the six ways to make people like you, the twelve ways to win people to your way of thinking,
and the nine ways to change people without arousing resentment.

---

![The Wisdom of Insecurity: A Message for an Age of Anxiety](https://i.imgur.com/4Wuvvd3.jpg#1.3 "The Wisdom of Insecurity: A Message for an Age of Anxiety")

## The Wisdom of Insecurity: A Message for an Age of Anxiety by Alan Watts

In this fascinating book, Alan Watts explores man's quest for psychological security, examining our
efforts to find spiritual and intellectual certainty in the realms of religion and philosophy.

The Wisdom of Insecurity underlines the importance of our search for stability in an age where human
life seems particularly vulnerable and uncertain.

Watts argues our insecurity is the consequence of trying to be secure and that, ironically,
salvation and sanity lie in the recognition that we have no way of saving ourselves.

---

![The Alchemist](https://i.imgur.com/QudDYhx.jpg#1.3 "The Alchemist")

## The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho

Paulo Coelho's masterpiece tells the mystical story of Santiago, an Andalusian shepherd boy who
yearns to travel in search of a worldly treasure.

His quest will lead him to riches far different, and far more satisfying, listening to our hearts,
of recognizing opportunity and learning to read the omens strewn along life's path, and, most
importantly, to follow our dreams.

---

![Meditations](https://i.imgur.com/jjhMYXc.jpg#1.3 "Meditations")

## Meditations by Marcus Aurelius

Written in Greek by the only Roman emperor who was also a philosopher, without any intention of
publication, the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius offer a remarkable series of challenging spiritual
reflections and exercises developed as the emperor struggled to understand himself and make sense of
the universe.

While the Meditations were composed to provide personal consolation and encouragement, Marcus
Aurelius also created one of the greatest of all works of philosophy: a timeless collection that has
been consulted and admired by statesmen, thinkers and readers throughout the centuries.

---

![A Brief History of Time](https://i.imgur.com/P4198tT.jpg#1.3 "A Brief History of Time")

## A Brief History of Time by Stephen Hawking

"Was there a beginning of time? Could time run backwards? Is the universe infinite or does it have
boundaries? These are just some of the questions considered in an internationally acclaimed
masterpiece by one of the world's greatest thinkers.

It begins by reviewing the great theories of the cosmos from Newton to Einstein, before delving into
the secrets which still lie at the heart of space and time, from the Big Bang to black holes, via
spiral galaxies and strong theory.

To this day A Brief History of Time remains a staple of the scientific canon, and its succinct and
clear language continues to introduce millions to the universe and its wonders."

---
